# Tizen WASM Video Decoder - Sample Application

*Table of Contents:*
* [Introduction](#introduction)
* [Building the sample widget with Tizen Studio](#building-the-sample-widget-with-tizen-studio)
  * [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  * [Step-by-step guide](#step-by-step-guide)
* [Required Emscripten flags](#required-emscripten-flags)

## Introduction

This is a sample application showing how to use **[Tizen WASM Video Decoder](https://developer.samsung.com/smarttv/develop/extension-libraries/webassembly/tizen-wasm-player/video-decoder.html)**
to play media on a Samsung Smart TV device using a WebAssembly module.

This application is an extension to Tizen WASM Player Sample Application. It presents how to extend existing WASM Player application to achieve decoding video frames to GL texture functionality.

`emss_sdf_sample.h` and `emss_sdf_sample.cc` files have been copied from `wasm_player_sample` application and are used only to manage playback in media player.
Video Decoder logic is located in `video_decoder_sdf_sample.h` and `video_decoder_sdf_sample.cc` files.

The sample application's features are:
* elementary media stream playback using `HTMLMediaElement` with an
  `ElementaryMediaStreamSource` data source and `kVideoTexture` rendering mode,
* [looping video](https://developer.samsung.com/smarttv/develop/extension-libraries/webassembly/tizen-wasm-player/usage-guide.html#loop),
* implementation of [Seeking](https://developer.samsung.com/smarttv/develop/extension-libraries/webassembly/tizen-wasm-player/usage-guide.html#seek) and [Multitasking](https://developer.samsung.com/SmartTV/develop/guides/fundamentals/multitasking.html).

Packetized data is hardcoded in app to maximize data access simplicity.

## Building the sample widget with Tizen Studio

### Prerequisites

Emscripten SDK with Samsung extensions and Tizen Studio are required to build
this sample. Please follow [a guide on Samsung Developers](https://developer.samsung.com/smarttv/develop/extension-libraries/webassembly/getting-started/downloading-and-installing.html)
to learn more about their installation and setup.

### Step-by-step guide

1. Launch Tizen Studio.

2. Create a new WebAssembly-enabled project in Tizen Studio:
   * File -> New -> Tizen Project,
   * select 'Template' and click 'Next',
   * select 'TV' and click 'Next',
   * select 'Web Application', check 'WebAssembly (C/C++)' box and click 'Next',
   * select 'Empty' application template and click 'Next',
   * name the project `VideoDecoderSample` and click 'Next',
   * enter paths to the Emscripten configuration file and cache directory
     (please refer to [a guide on Tizen Developers](https://developer.samsung.com/smarttv/develop/extension-libraries/webassembly/getting-started/creating-hello-webassembly-tv-application.html)
     for details),
   * click 'Finish'.

3. Add a new WebAssembly module to the project:
   * click right mouse button on the project in 'Project Explorer',
   * click 'New' -> 'WebAssembly Module' in the context menu,
   * select 'Empty module' and click 'Next',
   * name the module `VideoDecoderSampleModule` (name is important, as this is the name
     used to load the module),
   * click 'Finish'.

4. Replace default HTML5 and C++ files generated by Tizen Studio with the files
   from this sample:

   a. Remove generated HTML5 and C++ files:
      * `VideoDecoderSample/index.html`
      * `VideoDecoderSample/main.js`
      * `VideoDecoderSample/css/style.css`
      * `VideoDecoderSampleModule/inc/empty.hpp`
      * `VideoDecoderSampleModule/src/empty.cpp`

   b. Copy sample widget's files to the projects in Tizen Studio:
      * `elementary_media_stream_source_sample/widget/*` -> `VideoDecoderSample/`
      * `elementary_media_stream_source_sample/src/*` -> `VideoDecoderSampleModule/`

5. Add necessary compiler and linker flags to the WebAssembly module:
   * click right mouse button on the `VideoDecoderSampleModule` project in 'Project
     Explorer',
   * select 'Properties' from the context menu,
   * select 'C/C++ Build' -> 'Settings',
   * on 'Tool Settings' tab:
      * select 'Emscripten C++ Compiler' -> 'Miscellaneous' and edit 'Other
        flags', changing `-std=gnu++11` to `-std=gnu++14`,
      * select 'Emscripten C++ Linker' -> 'Miscellaneous':
         * append following flags to 'Linker flags':
            ```bash
            -s ENVIRONMENT_MAY_BE_TIZEN -pthread -s USE_PTHREADS=1 -s PTHREAD_POOL_SIZE=1
            ```
            *(flags are explained below, in* Required Emscripten flags *section)*
         * remove `-s EXPORT_NAME=VideoDecoderSampleModule -s MODULARIZE=1 ` from
            'Linker flags'.
            *Please note:* this step is required, because code loading
            modularized and non-modularized WebAssembly modules differ slightly.
            This sample is prepared to load modules that doesn't use
            `MODULARIZE` option.
   * click 'Apply and Close'.

6. Build the project:
   * click right mouse button on the `VideoDecoderSample` project in 'Project Explorer',
   * click 'Build Project' in context menu.

7. Create a widget package:
   * click right mouse button on the `VideoDecoderSample` project in 'Project Explorer',
   * click 'Build Signed Package' in context menu.

8. The widget is ready to use!

## Required Emscripten flags

The table below explains Emscripten-specific build flags required to build this
sample:

| Flag | Description |
|------|-------------|
| `-s ENVIRONMENT_MAY_BE_TIZEN` | Enables usage of Samsung Tizen Emscripten extensions available on Samsung Tizen TVs. This flag is necessary to use Elementary Media Stream Source. |
| `-pthread -s USE_PTHREADS=1` | Enables usage of threads in WebAssembly module.  |
| `-s USE_SDL2=1` | Flag enabling SDL2 library (libsdl2). |
| `-s PTHREAD_POOL_SIZE=1` | WebAssembly module will be prepared to start indicated number of threads. It's important to set this parameter to a maximum number of threads that an application uses; otherwise starting new threads may fail! See [pthreads](https://emscripten.org/docs/porting/pthreads.html) in Emscripten documentation for more information. |
